.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Aug 2023" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-container-kill - Kill one or more running containers


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker container kill [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\fCdocker kill\fR subcommand kills one or more containers. The main process
inside the container is sent \fB\fCSIGKILL\fR signal (default), or the signal that is
specified with the \fB\fC--signal\fR option. You can reference a container by its
ID, ID-prefix, or name.

.PP
The \fB\fC--signal\fR flag sets the system call signal that is sent to the container.
This signal can be a signal name in the format \fB\fCSIG<NAME>\fR, for instance \fB\fCSIGINT\fR,
or an unsigned number that matches a position in the kernel's syscall table,
for instance \fB\fC2\fR\&.

.PP
While the default (\fB\fCSIGKILL\fR) signal will terminate the container, the signal
set through \fB\fC--signal\fR may be non-terminal, depending on the container's main
process. For example, the \fB\fCSIGHUP\fR signal in most cases will be non-terminal,
and the container will continue running after receiving the signal.

.PP
.RS

.PP
\fBNote\fP

.PP
\fB\fCENTRYPOINT\fR and \fB\fCCMD\fR in the \fIshell\fP form run as a child process of
\fB\fC/bin/sh -c\fR, which does not pass signals. This means that the executable is
not the container’s PID 1 and does not receive Unix signals.

.RE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for kill

.PP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--signal\fP=""
	Signal to send to the container


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-container(1)\fP
