.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Jun 2024" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-system-info - Display system-wide information


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker system info [OPTIONS]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command displays system wide information regarding the Docker installation.
Information displayed includes the kernel version, number of containers and images.
The number of images shown is the number of unique images. The same image tagged
under different names is counted only once.

.PP
If a format is specified, the given template will be executed instead of the
default format. Go's \fBtext/template\fP package
describes all the details of the format.

.PP
Depending on the storage driver in use, additional information can be shown, such
as pool name, data file, metadata file, data space used, total data space, metadata
space used, and total metadata space.

.PP
The data file is where the images are stored and the metadata file is where the
meta data regarding those images are stored. When run for the first time Docker
allocates a certain amount of data space and meta data space from the space
available on the volume where \fB/var/lib/docker\fR is mounted.


.SH EXAMPLES
.SH Display Docker system information
.PP
The example below shows the output for a daemon running on Ubuntu Linux,
using the \fBoverlay2\fR storage driver. As can be seen in the output, additional
information about the \fBoverlay2\fR storage driver is shown:

.EX
$ docker info

Client: Docker Engine - Community
 Version:    24.0.0
 Context:    default
 Debug Mode: false
 Plugins:
  buildx: Docker Buildx (Docker Inc.)
    Version:  v0.10.4
    Path:     /usr/libexec/docker/cli-plugins/docker-buildx
  compose: Docker Compose (Docker Inc.)
    Version:  v2.17.2
    Path:     /usr/libexec/docker/cli-plugins/docker-compose

Server:
 Containers: 14
  Running: 3
  Paused: 1
  Stopped: 10
 Images: 52
 Server Version: 23.0.3
 Storage Driver: overlay2
  Backing Filesystem: extfs
  Supports d_type: true
  Using metacopy: false
  Native Overlay Diff: true
  userxattr: false
 Logging Driver: json-file
 Cgroup Driver: systemd
 Cgroup Version: 2
 Plugins:
  Volume: local
  Network: bridge host ipvlan macvlan null overlay
  Log: awslogs fluentd gcplogs gelf journald json-file local splunk syslog
 Swarm: inactive
 Runtimes: io.containerd.runc.v2 runc
 Default Runtime: runc
 Init Binary: docker-init
 containerd version: 2806fc1057397dbaeefbea0e4e17bddfbd388f38
 runc version: v1.1.5-0-gf19387a
 init version: de40ad0
 Security Options:
  apparmor
  seccomp
   Profile: builtin
  cgroupns
 Kernel Version: 5.15.0-25-generic
 Operating System: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
 OSType: linux
 Architecture: x86_64
 CPUs: 1
 Total Memory: 991.7 MiB
 Name: ip-172-30-0-91.ec2.internal
 ID: 4cee4408-10d2-4e17-891c-a41736ac4536
 Docker Root Dir: /var/lib/docker
 Debug Mode: false
 Username: gordontheturtle
 Experimental: false
 Insecure Registries:
  myinsecurehost:5000
  127.0.0.0/8
 Live Restore Enabled: false

.EE

.PP
You can also specify the output format:

.EX
$ docker info --format '{{json .}}'
{"ID":"4cee4408-10d2-4e17-891c-a41736ac4536","Containers":14, ...}

.EE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--format\fP=""
	Format output using a custom template:
'json':             Print in JSON format
'TEMPLATE':         Print output using the given Go template.
Refer to https://docs.docker.com/go/formatting/ for more information about formatting output with templates

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for info


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-system(1)\fP
