.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Aug 2023" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-container-ls - List containers


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker container ls [OPTIONS]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
List the containers in the local repository. By default this shows only
the running containers.

.SH Filters
.PP
Filter output based on these conditions:
   - ancestor=([:tag]||image@digest
\[la]mailto:image@digest\[ra])
     containers created from an image or a descendant.
   - before=(|)
   - expose=([/]|/[])
   - exited= an exit code of 
   - health=(starting|healthy|unhealthy|none)
   - id= a container's ID
   - isolation=(\fB\fCdefault\fR|\fB\fCprocess\fR|\fB\fChyperv\fR) (Windows daemon only)
   - is-task=(true|false)
   - label= or label==
   - name= a container's name
   - network=(|)
   - publish=([/]|/[])
   - since=(|)
   - status=(created|restarting|removing|running|paused|exited)
   - volume=(|)

.SH Format
.PP
The formatting option (\fB--format\fP) pretty-prints container output
using a Go template.

.PP
Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:
   - .ID           - Container ID.
   - .Image        - Image ID.
   - .Command      - Quoted command.
   - .CreatedAt    - Time when the container was created.
   - .RunningFor   - Elapsed time since the container was started.
   - .Ports        - Exposed ports.
   - .Status       - Container status.
   - .Size         - Container disk size.
   - .Names        - Container names.
   - .Labels       - All labels assigned to the container.
   - .Label        - Value of a specific label for this container.
                     For example \fB\&'{{.Label "com.docker.swarm.cpu"}}'\fP\&.
   - .Mounts       - Names of the volumes mounted in this container.
   - .Networks     - Names of the networks attached to this container.


.SH EXAMPLES
.SH Display all containers, including non-running
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls -a
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                 COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS      PORTS    NAMES
a87ecb4f327c        ubuntu:22.04          /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   20 minutes ago      Exit 0               desperate_brattain
01946d9d34d8        busybox               /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   33 minutes ago      Exit 0               thirsty_bell
c1d3b0166030        acffc0358b9e          /bin/sh -c yum -y up   2 weeks ago         Exit 1               determined_torvalds
41d50ecd2f57        ubuntu:22.04          /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   2 weeks ago         Exit 0               drunk_pike

.fi
.RE

.SH Display only IDs of all containers, including non-running
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls -a -q
a87ecb4f327c
01946d9d34d8
c1d3b0166030
41d50ecd2f57

.fi
.RE

.SH Display only IDs of all containers that have the name \fB\fCdetermined_torvalds\fR
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls -a -q --filter=name=determined_torvalds
c1d3b0166030

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers with their commands
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Command}}"
a87ecb4f327c: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
01946d9d34d8: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
c1d3b0166030: /bin/sh -c yum -y up
41d50ecd2f57: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers with their labels in a table
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls --format "table {{.ID}}\\t{{.Labels}}"
CONTAINER ID        LABELS
a87ecb4f327c        com.docker.swarm.node=ubuntu,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd
01946d9d34d8
c1d3b0166030        com.docker.swarm.node=debian,com.docker.swarm.cpu=6
41d50ecd2f57        com.docker.swarm.node=fedora,com.docker.swarm.cpu=3,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers with their node label in a table
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls --format 'table {{.ID}}\\t{{(.Label "com.docker.swarm.node")}}'
CONTAINER ID        NODE
a87ecb4f327c        worker-1
01946d9d34d8
c1d3b0166030        worker-1
41d50ecd2f57        worker-2

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers with \fB\fCremote-volume\fR mounted
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls --filter volume=remote-volume --format "table {{.ID}}\\t{{.Mounts}}"
CONTAINER ID        MOUNTS
9c3527ed70ce        remote-volume

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers with a volume mounted in \fB\fC/data\fR
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker container ls --filter volume=/data --format "table {{.ID}}\\t{{.Mounts}}"
CONTAINER ID        MOUNTS
9c3527ed70ce        remote-volume

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers that have published port of 80:
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker ps --filter publish=80
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED              STATUS              PORTS                   NAMES
fc7e477723b7        busybox             "top"               About a minute ago   Up About a minute   0.0.0.0:32768->80/tcp   admiring_roentgen

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers that have exposed TCP port in the range of \fB\fC8000-8080\fR:
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker ps --filter expose=8000-8080/tcp
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
9833437217a5        busybox             "top"               21 seconds ago      Up 19 seconds       8080/tcp            dreamy_mccarthy

.fi
.RE

.SH Display containers in JSON format:
.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker ps --format json
{"Command":"\\"/docker-entrypoint.…\\"","CreatedAt":"2021-03-10 00:15:05 +0100 CET","ID":"a762a2b37a1d","Image":"nginx","Labels":"maintainer=NGINX Docker Maintainers \\u003cdocker-maint@nginx.com\\u003e","LocalVolumes":"0","Mounts":"","Names":"boring_keldysh","Networks":"bridge","Ports":"80/tcp","RunningFor":"4 seconds ago","Size":"0B","State":"running","Status":"Up 3 seconds"}

.fi
.RE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--all\fP[=false]
	Show all containers (default shows just running)

.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--filter\fP=
	Filter output based on conditions provided

.PP
\fB--format\fP=""
	Format output using a custom template:
'table':            Print output in table format with column headers (default)
'table TEMPLATE':   Print output in table format using the given Go template
'json':             Print in JSON format
'TEMPLATE':         Print output using the given Go template.
Refer to https://docs.docker.com/go/formatting/ for more information about formatting output with templates

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for ls

.PP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--last\fP=-1
	Show n last created containers (includes all states)

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--latest\fP[=false]
	Show the latest created container (includes all states)

.PP
\fB--no-trunc\fP[=false]
	Don't truncate output

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Only display container IDs

.PP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--size\fP[=false]
	Display total file sizes


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-container(1)\fP
