.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Aug 2023" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-image-pull - Download an image from a registry


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker image pull [OPTIONS] NAME[:TAG|@DIGEST]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command pulls down an image or a repository from a registry. If
there is more than one image for a repository (e.g., fedora) then all
images for that repository name can be pulled down including any tags
(see the option \fB-a\fP or \fB--all-tags\fP).

.PP
If you do not specify a \fB\fCREGISTRY_HOST\fR, the command uses Docker's public
registry located at \fB\fCregistry-1.docker.io\fR by default.


.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Pull an image from Docker Hub
.PP
To download a particular image, or set of images (i.e., a repository), use
\fB\fCdocker image pull\fR (or the \fB\fCdocker pull\fR shorthand). If no tag is provided,
Docker Engine uses the \fB\fC:latest\fR tag as a default. This example pulls the
\fB\fCdebian:latest\fR image:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull debian

Using default tag: latest
latest: Pulling from library/debian
e756f3fdd6a3: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:3f1d6c17773a45c97bd8f158d665c9709d7b29ed7917ac934086ad96f92e4510
Status: Downloaded newer image for debian:latest
docker.io/library/debian:latest

.fi
.RE

.PP
Docker images can consist of multiple layers. In the example above, the image
consists of a single layer; \fB\fCe756f3fdd6a3\fR\&.

.PP
Layers can be reused by images. For example, the \fB\fCdebian:bullseye\fR image shares
its layer with the \fB\fCdebian:latest\fR\&. Pulling the \fB\fCdebian:bullseye\fR image therefore
only pulls its metadata, but not its layers, because the layer is already present
locally:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull debian:bullseye

bullseye: Pulling from library/debian
Digest: sha256:3f1d6c17773a45c97bd8f158d665c9709d7b29ed7917ac934086ad96f92e4510
Status: Downloaded newer image for debian:bullseye
docker.io/library/debian:bullseye

.fi
.RE

.PP
To see which images are present locally, use the \fBdocker-images(1)\fP
command:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker images

REPOSITORY   TAG        IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
debian       bullseye   4eacea30377a   8 days ago     124MB
debian       latest     4eacea30377a   8 days ago     124MB

.fi
.RE

.PP
Docker uses a content-addressable image store, and the image ID is a SHA256
digest covering the image's configuration and layers. In the example above,
\fB\fCdebian:bullseye\fR and \fB\fCdebian:latest\fR have the same image ID because they are
the \fIsame\fP image tagged with different names. Because they are the same image,
their layers are stored only once and do not consume extra disk space.

.PP
For more information about images, layers, and the content-addressable store,
refer to understand images, containers, and storage drivers
\[la]https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/\[ra]
in the online documentation.

.SH Pull an image by digest (immutable identifier)
.PP
So far, you've pulled images by their name (and "tag"). Using names and tags is
a convenient way to work with images. When using tags, you can \fB\fCdocker image pull\fR an
image again to make sure you have the most up-to-date version of that image.
For example, \fB\fCdocker image pull ubuntu:22.04\fR pulls the latest version of the Ubuntu
22.04 image.

.PP
In some cases you don't want images to be updated to newer versions, but prefer
to use a fixed version of an image. Docker enables you to pull an image by its
\fIdigest\fP\&. When pulling an image by digest, you specify \fIexactly\fP which version
of an image to pull. Doing so, allows you to "pin" an image to that version,
and guarantee that the image you're using is always the same.

.PP
To know the digest of an image, pull the image first. Let's pull the latest
\fB\fCubuntu:22.04\fR image from Docker Hub:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull ubuntu:22.04

22.04: Pulling from library/ubuntu
125a6e411906: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d
Status: Downloaded newer image for ubuntu:22.04
docker.io/library/ubuntu:22.04

.fi
.RE

.PP
Docker prints the digest of the image after the pull has finished. In the example
above, the digest of the image is:

.PP
.RS

.nf
sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d

.fi
.RE

.PP
Docker also prints the digest of an image when \fIpushing\fP to a registry. This
may be useful if you want to pin to a version of the image you just pushed.

.PP
A digest takes the place of the tag when pulling an image, for example, to
pull the above image by digest, run the following command:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull ubuntu@sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d

docker.io/library/ubuntu@sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d: Pulling from library/ubuntu
Digest: sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d
Status: Image is up to date for ubuntu@sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d
docker.io/library/ubuntu@sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d

.fi
.RE

.PP
Digest can also be used in the \fB\fCFROM\fR of a Dockerfile, for example:

.PP
.RS

.nf
FROM ubuntu@sha256:26c68657ccce2cb0a31b330cb0be2b5e108d467f641c62e13ab40cbec258c68d
LABEL org.opencontainers.image.authors="some maintainer <maintainer@example.com>"

.fi
.RE

.PP
.RS

.PP
\fBNote\fP

.PP
Using this feature "pins" an image to a specific version in time.
Docker does therefore not pull updated versions of an image, which may include
security updates. If you want to pull an updated image, you need to change the
digest accordingly.

.RE

.SH Pull from a different registry
.PP
By default, \fB\fCdocker image pull\fR pulls images from Docker Hub. It is also possible to
manually specify the path of a registry to pull from. For example, if you have
set up a local registry, you can specify its path to pull from it. A registry
path is similar to a URL, but does not contain a protocol specifier (\fB\fChttps://\fR).

.PP
The following command pulls the \fB\fCtesting/test-image\fR image from a local registry
listening on port 5000 (\fB\fCmyregistry.local:5000\fR):

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull myregistry.local:5000/testing/test-image

.fi
.RE

.PP
Registry credentials are managed by \fBdocker-login(1)\fP\&.

.PP
Docker uses the \fB\fChttps://\fR protocol to communicate with a registry, unless the
registry is allowed to be accessed over an insecure connection. Refer to the
insecure registries
\[la]https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#insecure-registries\[ra]
section in the online documentation for more information.

.SH Pull a repository with multiple images
.PP
By default, \fB\fCdocker image pull\fR pulls a \fIsingle\fP image from the registry. A repository
can contain multiple images. To pull all images from a repository, provide the
\fB\fC-a\fR (or \fB\fC--all-tags\fR) option when using \fB\fCdocker image pull\fR\&.

.PP
This command pulls all images from the \fB\fCubuntu\fR repository:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull --all-tags ubuntu

Pulling repository ubuntu
ad57ef8d78d7: Download complete
105182bb5e8b: Download complete
511136ea3c5a: Download complete
73bd853d2ea5: Download complete
....

Status: Downloaded newer image for ubuntu

.fi
.RE

.PP
After the pull has completed use the \fB\fCdocker image ls\fR (or \fB\fCdocker images\fR shorthand)
command to see the images that were pulled. The example below shows all the \fB\fCubuntu\fR
images that are present locally:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image ls --filter reference=ubuntu
REPOSITORY   TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
ubuntu       18.04     c6ad7e71ba7d   5 weeks ago    63.2MB
ubuntu       bionic    c6ad7e71ba7d   5 weeks ago    63.2MB
ubuntu       22.04     5ccefbfc0416   2 months ago   78MB
ubuntu       focal     ff0fea8310f3   2 months ago   72.8MB
ubuntu       latest    ff0fea8310f3   2 months ago   72.8MB
ubuntu       jammy     41ba606c8ab9   3 months ago   79MB
ubuntu       20.04     ba6acccedd29   7 months ago   72.8MB
...

.fi
.RE

.SH Cancel a pull
.PP
Killing the \fB\fCdocker image pull\fR process, for example by pressing \fB\fCCTRL-c\fR while it is
running in a terminal, will terminate the pull operation.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker image pull ubuntu

Using default tag: latest
latest: Pulling from library/ubuntu
a3ed95caeb02: Pulling fs layer
236608c7b546: Pulling fs layer
^C

.fi
.RE

.PP
The Engine terminates a pull operation when the connection between the Docker
Engine daemon and the Docker Engine client initiating the pull is lost. If the
connection with the Engine daemon is lost for other reasons than a manual
interaction, the pull is also aborted.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--all-tags\fP[=false]
	Download all tagged images in the repository

.PP
\fB--disable-content-trust\fP[=true]
	Skip image verification

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for pull

.PP
\fB--platform\fP=""
	Set platform if server is multi-platform capable

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress verbose output


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-image(1)\fP
