.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Jan 2024" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-network-ls - List networks


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker network ls [OPTIONS]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Lists all the networks the Engine \fBdaemon\fR knows about. This includes the
networks that span across multiple hosts in a cluster, for example:

.EX
$ docker network ls
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
7fca4eb8c647        bridge              bridge          local
9f904ee27bf5        none                null            local
cf03ee007fb4        host                host            local
78b03ee04fc4        multi-host          overlay         swarm

.EE

.PP
Use the \fB--no-trunc\fR option to display the full network id:

.EX
$ docker network ls --no-trunc
NETWORK ID                                                         NAME                DRIVER
18a2866682b85619a026c81b98a5e375bd33e1b0936a26cc497c283d27bae9b3   none                null                
c288470c46f6c8949c5f7e5099b5b7947b07eabe8d9a27d79a9cbf111adcbf47   host                host                
7b369448dccbf865d397c8d2be0cda7cf7edc6b0945f77d2529912ae917a0185   bridge              bridge              
95e74588f40db048e86320c6526440c504650a1ff3e9f7d60a497c4d2163e5bd   foo                 bridge    
63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161   dev                 bridge

.EE

.SH Filtering
.PP
The filtering flag (\fB-f\fR or \fB--filter\fR) format is a \fBkey=value\fR pair. If there
is more than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g. \fB--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"\fR).
Multiple filter flags are combined as an \fBOR\fR filter. For example,
\fB-f type=custom -f type=builtin\fR returns both \fBcustom\fR and \fBbuiltin\fR networks.

.PP
The currently supported filters are:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
driver
.IP \(bu 2
id (network's id)
.IP \(bu 2
label (\fBlabel=<key>\fR or \fBlabel=<key>=<value>\fR)
.IP \(bu 2
name (network's name)
.IP \(bu 2
scope (\fBswarm|global|local\fR)
.IP \(bu 2
type (custom|builtin)

.RE

.SS Driver
.PP
The \fBdriver\fR filter matches networks based on their driver.

.PP
The following example matches networks with the \fBbridge\fR driver:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter driver=bridge
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
db9db329f835        test1               bridge
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge

.EE

.SS ID
.PP
The \fBid\fR filter matches on all or part of a network's ID.

.PP
The following filter matches all networks with an ID containing the
\fB63d1ff1f77b0...\fR string.

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter id=63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge

.EE

.PP
You can also filter for a substring in an ID as this shows:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter id=95e74588f40d
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge

$ docker network ls --filter id=95e
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge

.EE

.SS Label
.PP
The \fBlabel\fR filter matches networks based on the presence of a \fBlabel\fR alone or a \fBlabel\fR and a
value.

.PP
The following filter matches networks with the \fBusage\fR label regardless of its value.

.EX
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
db9db329f835        test1               bridge              
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge

.EE

.PP
The following filter matches networks with the \fBusage\fR label with the \fBprod\fR value.

.EX
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage=prod"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge

.EE

.SS Name
.PP
The \fBname\fR filter matches on all or part of a network's name.

.PP
The following filter matches all networks with a name containing the \fBfoobar\fR string.

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter name=foobar
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge

.EE

.PP
You can also filter for a substring in a name as this shows:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter name=foo
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge

.EE

.SS Scope
.PP
The \fBscope\fR filter matches networks based on their scope.

.PP
The following example matches networks with the \fBswarm\fR scope:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter scope=swarm
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER              SCOPE
xbtm0v4f1lfh        ingress             overlay             swarm
ic6r88twuu92        swarmnet            overlay             swarm

.EE

.PP
The following example matches networks with the \fBlocal\fR scope:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter scope=local
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER              SCOPE
e85227439ac7        bridge              bridge              local
0ca0e19443ed        host                host                local
ca13cc149a36        localnet            bridge              local
f9e115d2de35        none                null                local

.EE

.SS Type
.PP
The \fBtype\fR filter supports two values; \fBbuiltin\fR displays predefined networks
(\fBbridge\fR, \fBnone\fR, \fBhost\fR), whereas \fBcustom\fR displays user defined networks.

.PP
The following filter matches all user defined networks:

.EX
$ docker network ls --filter type=custom
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge

.EE

.PP
By having this flag it allows for batch cleanup. For example, use this filter
to delete all user defined networks:

.EX
$ docker network rm `docker network ls --filter type=custom -q`

.EE

.PP
A warning will be issued when trying to remove a network that has containers
attached.

.SH Format
.PP
Format uses a Go template to print the output. The following variables are
supported:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\&.ID - Network ID
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Name - Network name
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Driver - Network driver
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Scope - Network scope (local, global)
.IP \(bu 2
\&.IPv6 - Whether IPv6 is enabled on the network or not
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Internal - Whether the network is internal or not
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Labels - All labels assigned to the network
.IP \(bu 2
\&.Label - Value of a specific label for this network. For example \fB{{.Label "project.version"}}\fR

.RE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--filter\fP=
	Provide filter values (e.g. "driver=bridge")

.PP
\fB--format\fP=""
	Format output using a custom template:
'table':            Print output in table format with column headers (default)
'table TEMPLATE':   Print output in table format using the given Go template
'json':             Print in JSON format
'TEMPLATE':         Print output using the given Go template.
Refer to https://docs.docker.com/go/formatting/ for more information about formatting output with templates

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for ls

.PP
\fB--no-trunc\fP[=false]
	Do not truncate the output

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Only display network IDs


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-network(1)\fP
