.nh
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "Aug 2023" "Docker Community" "Docker User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.PP
docker-container-attach - Attach local standard input, output, and error streams to a running container


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker container attach [OPTIONS] CONTAINER\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBdocker attach\fP command allows you to attach to a running container using
the container's ID or name, either to view its ongoing output or to control it
interactively.  You can attach to the same contained process multiple times
simultaneously, screen sharing style, or quickly view the progress of your
detached process.

.PP
To stop a container, use \fB\fCCTRL-c\fR\&. This key sequence sends \fBSIGKILL\fP to the
container. You can detach from the container (and leave it running) using a
configurable key sequence. The default sequence is \fB\fCCTRL-p CTRL-q\fR\&. You
configure the key sequence using the \fB--detach-keys\fP option or a configuration
file. See \fBconfig-json(5)\fP for documentation on using a configuration file.

.PP
It is forbidden to redirect the standard input of a \fBdocker attach\fP command while
attaching to a TTY-enabled container (i.e., launched with \fB\fC-i\fR and \fB\fC-t\fR).


.SH EXAMPLES
.SH Attaching to a container
.PP
In this example the top command is run inside a container from an ubuntu image,
in detached mode, then attaches to it, and then terminates the container
with \fB\fCCTRL-c\fR:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker run -d --name topdemo ubuntu:20.04 /usr/bin/top -b
$ docker attach topdemo
top - 00:07:01 up  4:54,  0 users,  load average: 0.83, 0.91, 0.82
Tasks:   1 total,   1 running,   0 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
%Cpu(s):  2.3 us,  1.6 sy,  0.0 ni, 95.9 id,  0.0 wa,  0.1 hi,  0.1 si,  0.0 st
MiB Mem :  15846.2 total,   5729.2 free,   2592.5 used,   7524.4 buff/cache
MiB Swap:  16384.0 total,  16384.0 free,      0.0 used.  12097.3 avail Mem 

    PID USER      PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU  %MEM     TIME+ COMMAND
      1 root      20   0    5976   3256   2828 R   0.0   0.0   0:00.04 top
^C

.fi
.RE

.SH Override the detach sequence
.PP
Use the \fB--detach-keys\fP option to override the Docker key sequence for detach.
This is useful if the Docker default sequence conflicts with key sequence you
use for other applications. There are two ways to define your own detach key
sequence, as a per-container override or as a configuration property on  your
entire configuration.

.PP
To override the sequence for an individual container, use the
\fB--detach-keys\fP=\fIkey\fP flag with the \fBdocker attach\fP command. The format of
the \fIkey\fP is either a letter [a-Z], or the \fBctrl\fP-\fIvalue\fP, where \fIvalue\fP is one
of the following:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBa-z\fP (a single lowercase alpha character )
.IP \(bu 2
\fB@\fP (at sign)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB[\fP (left bracket)
.IP \(bu 2
*\fI\\\\*\fP (two backward slashes)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB_\fP (underscore)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB^\fP (caret)

.RE

.PP
These \fBa\fP, \fBctrl-a\fP, \fBX\fP, or *\fIctrl-\\*\fP values are all examples of valid key
sequences. To configure a different configuration default key sequence for all
containers, see \fBdocker(1)\fP\&.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--detach-keys\fP=""
	Override the key sequence for detaching a container

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for attach

.PP
\fB--no-stdin\fP[=false]
	Do not attach STDIN

.PP
\fB--sig-proxy\fP[=true]
	Proxy all received signals to the process


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdocker-container(1)\fP
